So are we going to talk about Adam speedrunning my hobbies?
How's it going?
It's great. Thanks for having me on decks.
I've been wanting to do this for a long time.
I'm glad that you finally gone through all of the better people
and you've gotten all the way down the list to me.
That's that's awesome.
Well, you finally did some stuff that was interesting enough.
You know, it was more you than me.
You have a new camera set up.
You look really good.
Thank you.
It's the same.
It's just a web cam, but the microphone is better.
And I actually did.
I went out and bought a key light on recommendation of you and others.
Yeah.
So I fixed a couple of those things.
Yeah, the lighting makes a huge difference.
It can make your camera seem like it's more expensive than it's not.
For a second, I thought you had maybe like a non-web cam.
No, just a crappy webcam.
You know, what it'll never do is make my beard look as good as yours.
And for that, I'll be jaded forever.
That's funny.
Yeah, the mic sounds great too.
There's a new purchase.
You got the MV7, right?
MV7, yeah.
It's a I was convinced Theo convinced me on Twitter to do that.
So so far, I've liked it a lot.
I've gotten some comments on it.
I've been told I have to go and just smoke a pack of new ports a day to get that voice level
down wherever you want it.
Yeah, even I feel that way.
I have a pretty naturally deep voice.
But Liz's dad, my wife's dad, she, he like smokes a crazy amount of cigars.
And he's got that like graveliness to his voice, which I'm just like,
I don't think I'm ever going to have that.
But it sounds amazing.
I mean, you don't want it, right?
Because it's not a it comes with all sorts of downsides.
It's kind of worth it.
I don't know podcast is doing that well.
It's not that.
It's just like whenever you're in, of course, it's for recording as I was great.
But whenever you're in any type of scenario, any meeting, any like,
anything you just sound way more authoritative and good and people want to hear you talk.
And I think that had just subtle effects on on everything you try to do.
So it does make a difference.
I think so too.
So are we going to talk about Adam speedrunning my hobbies?
Oh, really?
Okay, let's let's let's start there.
Let's talk about your hobbies.
The thing I wanted to start off with image yesterday is second.
So for those of you that don't know AJ, I'm going to start off with the weirdest part
about him, which is he literally jumps off of bridges.
And there's plenty of days on Twitter of him jumping off things, backflipping off things.
So tell us more about why do you do that?
How did that happen?
Just give us a rundown.
I mean, that's a long story.
It starts.
I grew up in a town called Nina, Wisconsin, which is about two miles north of Oshkosh,
which hosts the single busiest fly in on the planet for a week in July every year.
It's the busiest airport in the world.
It's called the Experimental Aviation Association, EAA, fly in.
It's this giant people who build planes.
And you can do this.
Within the rights of you as an American, I think just a just a resident.
You can build an aircraft in your garage and put a experimental slap and experimental sticker
up on the door and just take take it up once you have your pilot.
So I grew up around aviation and I wasn't clear.
It was normal to me to have friends that just had planes they built or like family
friends, like, oh, you get to go over to Uncle Bob's house.
He's got a hanger in his backyard where he built this kit plane and just takes it off
from his grass field.
That wasn't typical.
It wasn't like every single person, but it wasn't abnormal either.
I'd been in a lot of aircraft before I was 18.
And I always wanted to do it, but it's super expensive.
And the cheapest single cheapest way to get into aviation is to skydive.
So I got into that around 2010.
I got my license and then I did a bunch of jumps for like two summers and then
had the opportunity to learn to base jump there.
So people I did it and there's this bridge you can go to in Idaho,
where it's legal year round.
It's free.
You just show up jump jump over the railing and jump.
And yeah, it's a parachute kit that you just you could you can get.
And you can just go and learn and do this thing.
So I started doing that in November 2012 and had the pleasure of doing that ever since.
Nice.
How like dangerous of a thing is it?
Right.
So the safety of base jumping I think is is a little skewed towards more dangerous because
not every jump is reported, but every accident becomes news.
So there are there are you can jump anything tall enough.
There are people that like I have a friend that owns a cell tower and runs a rural
internet company in Minnesota.
And I probably have a dozen two dozen jumps off of that tower.
Wow, because it's you know you just climb it and jump it and it's his.
And there's no there's no organization.
There is no governing body.
There's no licensing program.
So there's not a reporting structure nationally or internationally that reports this.
There are very popular places to jump in the world.
In the lot of room in Valley of Switzerland is extremely popular and they're several times.
Northern Italy has a lot of great spots and they have some organization and they have some
reporting, but that is just like these small bits.
There is just no you know body that collects information on how many jumps are done.
So it's all speculative.
But yeah, I've had the pleasure of having eight hundred and seventy some bass jumps.
I've never been around.
I splinted a couple legs and helped carry people out.
But otherwise have been have been pretty safe.
And there's a lot.
I mean, it's risk management.
I think anytime you look at the stunts or these you know,
bass jumps or YouTube, it seems like it's completely wild and out of control.
But you're not seeing all the preparation that goes into it.
And you're not necessarily understanding how the systems are engineered to keep you safe.
Nice.
Which I think is like that's one of the coolest parts about this board is just how
simple the system is engineered to be.
And as a software engineer, I think you're like primed to appreciate it.
Yeah.
Because there is not a part of that kit that isn't necessary.
And there is only like every single part is designed for a specific purpose.
It's designed to be bomb proof.
It's designed to never fail or if it does fail fail obviously.
So you check it.
You know, you catch it in a gear check.
Things are color coded.
Things are ordered.
I think there's a check process.
Manufacturers have collaborated on ways to ensure that the safety is sort of built into the systems.
And it's just like a really interesting it interesting from a technical standpoint
achievement for for the systems to be just so light so small and so simple.
And so they're like extremely linear.
Yeah.
That's the way I would explain it.
Yeah, that's very cool.
What do you think of the the new stunt and the mission impossible movie from this year?
I'm sure you've seen it.
Yeah, I have Tom Cruise is a sort of legendary in both acting, of course, but also in the sport.
He has a Scott having license.
He has his private pilot license.
He has a helicopter or rotary aircraft certificate.
He can he kind of does everything.
He's an avid jumper too.
Like he takes it seriously and does a lot of jumps.
Mostly, I think in the large Arizona drop zone.
But for the for the most part, you know, he did it for sure.
Like and you could tell they were like their insurance company is probably sweating.
And he's sort of sitting down there.
He's like, yeah, you know, I could I could go again.
I could go again.
Yeah, they did it a few times, right?
Yeah, probably.
And I'm sure like there's like a behind the scenes interview where the director's like,
yeah, we got a ton.
We got he's like, no, no, no, I want to like we're going to go again.
And that's exactly what any base jumper would do.
They're like, I'm going to just press the fun button.
There's like a little dopamine button.
And Tom Cruise is walking over to the wall and he's just pressing that dopamine button
as his entire staff and crew and insurance company.
I'm sure are just sweating and holding their head and freaking out every time.
He's like, no, no, no, like let's go again.
Really impressive.
So for those of you that haven't seen the that haven't seen the movie,
he basically rides a dirt bike off of a ramp of a cliff.
Then he like separates from the dirt bike and then pulls a shoot.
And yeah, he did it a few times, which is, which is crazy.
And I think that was a crazy stunt.
I think for me, the craziest one will still be when he's strapped to the side of the plane.
When it's taking off.
Oh, yeah, that's wild.
Yeah, like he's strapped in.
So he's not really too much in control of anything,
but I cannot think of anything.
Has anyone ever done that before?
Just like how many people on earth have had that experience of like knowing what it's like
to be on the side of the plane?
It's just taking on more than you'd think.
Oh, yeah, because it's more than you think, okay.
So when you're skydiving, you have to get out of the aircraft.
That's true.
The large planes have jump doors, but I grew up jumping like a Cessna 172 or I think it was
206, 208, the small Cessna where you have to open the door and climb out.
And then you're holding out of the strut.
So you're in the prop last year behind the prop,
and you're just getting, you know, you're holding onto it.
And you have to get clear of the aircraft and then also know where you're above the ground,
where you drop because you're not making a lot of horizontal progress,
even in a wing suit, compared to where you can be in an aircraft.
So you have to kind of know all this and pick your spot and then climb out.
So holding on is a little easier than you think, but you're just gripped with fear.
Yeah, it's true.
You've got that like, you know, strength where you're like,
I'm never letting go until the jump master is looking at me like,
you go now, okay.
Yeah, it's in that scene.
I was like, oh, well, the nice part is he's never thinking about acting
because I'm sure his face is just reflecting exactly what he needs to be saying.
Yeah.
Yeah, I have no, I mean, it must be terrifying to be outside of the aircraft on takeoff.
I've never done that.
That's like totally unsafe.
The parachutes don't work below a certain height,
especially skydiving parachute.
So I, you know, that would be freaky from like an equipment standpoint.
Yeah.
Do you think he had a parachute on when he was doing that scene?
No, they had a cable up the arm, but I can tell you from personal experience,
I am a terrified person by like cliff edges without a parachute.
Yeah, me too.
And then I put this stupid little backpack on and then I'm happy to just walk over
and like kick a rock over and just stand and be like, oh, it looks good.
And it shouldn't, it's not right.
It's like, it's to do this hobby, to do this as an activity.
You have to like convince yourself that it's totally safe with a parachute,
even though you know it's not like statistically speaking,
it's just not a safe activity.
But that same mentality that gets you to jump off the edge makes you think you're
invincible with the backpack on. And I do think that's interesting.
Because if I did slip and fall, I would get very badly hurt or killed.
You know, you need to have a good exit.
You need to push hard.
You need to present your body such that the parachute opens away
from the cliff or the object you're jumping off of.
There are all these things you have to do to do this safely.
But that mentality of like, okay, I can just walk up to the edge and just like
peer down off a cliff.
I think I think it like does you disservice actually, but it's required, right?
Yeah, it's very cool.
Yeah, I've always like heard about this.
I never really known anyone that was so deep in it.
There's a bunch of great drop zones in Florida, too.
You should give it a shot.
The one thing you're going to miss out on.
Yeah, Scott, I have to land.
Uh, wait, Daedland?
Like D-A-D land?
No, D-E-L-A-N-D.
Oh, got it.
Has a really big drop zone.
Nice.
Well, I'm assuming these are all, well, hang on.
You're talking about Scott, I think you're based jumping.
Scott, I don't think there's a lot of buzzies.
Say the highest point in Florida is like 300 feet.
Yeah, yeah, it's just flat, flat and marshy.
Yeah, so it'd have to be like office LTA or something.
So you were saying that Adam is speedrunning through your hobbies.
What did you mean by that?
In high school, I started jujitsu in mixed martial arts.
I liked jujitsu a lot more because I didn't like getting hit in the face.
I did one amateur MMA fight.
I won, and then I was like, I don't know if this is for me.
So I went back to just the jujitsu thing.
I got a blue belt, and then I was in school,
so I had to kind of put it aside for a while.
And then that next summer I picked up skydiving.
So that's like, I'm waiting for Adam to be like, I'm done.
The jujitsu thing, but the skydiving thing.
Yeah.
I'm going to check that out, you know.
His brother is a pilot, so yeah, he set up well.
And there is nothing stopping you.
Well, there's a couple of rules,
but nothing really stopping you from leaving that aircraft.
I mean, so I had a friend that built a powered parachute
and the way these systems work,
they are the scariest piece of amateur aviation you've ever imagined.
It is nothing more than a go-kart and a fan and then a skydiving tandem parachute
over it.
And there's a video on YouTube of it.
And one of the interesting things about about baseraming parachutes
is they can generally be configured two ways.
They can be configured for jumping off of really low stuff.
And then the parachute is packed to open as fast as absolutely possible.
They can be configured for jumping a terminal velocity
out of like a high aircraft or off of a cliff or with a wing suit.
And in that case, you have to pack it so that it deploys slower.
Otherwise, you could really get rocked and damage the equipment in yourself.
And I'm coming up on this little powered tricycle.
The thing is shaking, he can't get it trimmed right.
So it's barely climbing and we're like coming up kind of to power lines,
where maybe, you know, 80, 90 feet in the air trying to gain altitude.
And all I'm thinking is, why did I pack this for a high jump?
Why did I configure this?
Because now I can't leave.
You know, once we're 200 feet up, if I was packed for,
we call it slider down and slider up.
If I was packed, slider down or with a reefing device that slows the canopy off,
I can jump very low.
And that is the biggest comfort when you're in somebody's hobby project.
They built on their farm in their spare time with a BAC of .08.
You know, the whole time they were building it.
And that every time I kick myself,
when I'm like, why did I convince myself to take the slider up
and convince myself I would get altitude?
And I'm watching this thing climb so slowly, like, oh, God.
So yeah, I'm waiting for Adam to speedrun the rest of these hobbies.
He's going to get a motorcycle next.
And then he's going to sell that quickly and start skydiving.
Yeah, the amateur aviation thing is crazy.
I don't know if you saw that news where these, I think it was two people from Cuba.
They escaped and made it to America with some kind of like powered glider thing that they built.
And it looked, it looked really cool.
It like looked really legit, but it was just made out of like motorcycle parts
and just like random stuff.
And they made it all the way here.
And I was like, you know what, if someone does that, you should just,
we should be waiting here with like a citizenship and like a job offer.
Yeah, I mean, it's crazy.
Yeah, like the immigration in this country is nuts.
So I'm I'm in Boston now.
It was in Minneapolis for the last 10 years,
which has a lot more general aviation airspace.
But my wife has a PhD and we we've been together.
We've been together as long as I've been based jumping.
So almost 11 years and we got married a few years ago.
And we're like, she's a PhD.
She's a master's degree.
She's working on gene editing at a biotech now, but previously was doing cancer research.
And we still had to fight the government for like four years to get a green card.
Yeah, it is really crazy.
Like it's like, I don't get super involved in political things,
but this is one area where I'm just like,
I just get so frustrated because there's so many amazing people that want to be here and
pay taxes and give it like us more money. And it's just like we make it so hard for
our reason when it's so obvious that we should be taking advantage of that and
kind of starving our competitors with those people.
Yeah. And Canada is doing a great job right there.
Their H1B process like, oh, you were in the lottery, but didn't get it.
You're automatically approved.
Yeah, that's insane.
You're fast-tracked here.
That's just slow.
Yeah.
What a no-brainer, right?
For a company like in we're a country that needs people.
I don't know, I think there's this misconception that we don't need more people.
We desperately need more people.
And that is an important thing to do to make that happen.
But I do like Boston, you know, like it a lot.
It's nice to be out here.
Like I said, less general aviation, but I pick up new hobbies and I ride my bike a lot.
And in an office most days, so I'm at home today, but for the most part,
I work at Datadog, I'm an engineer, I work on the serverless stuff.
And I get to go into an office most days, which is nice.
I know I used to work for a remote company like UDACS.
And I like that too.
But sometimes it's nice to just like talk to people in person.
No, I definitely miss it.
And I posted the other day about how if I could literally have anything in the world,
it wouldn't be 100% remote.
Like I would love to just have a place where I can handle my co-workers whenever I wanted to.
Yeah, let's unpack that.
Like, what do Jay and Frank think about that too?
No, they're all into that as well.
I think, I mean, the two of them are both in Canada and Toronto.
So Jay works in a wee work every day, and Frank comes in not every single day, but occasionally.
Yeah, at the end of the day, we're such a small team, and we all like each other.
So we're just down to hang out.
So it would be nice.
Of course, it's not like an extreme where we're in there eight hours a day, every single day.
But just some of that mixed back in.
I've always worked at small companies, and I know people think this is bad,
but a big part of my social life did come from the people I worked with.
Because at Small Company, you just get really close to people.
You tend to pick people you could be friends with in terms of who joins the team.
You hang out, you get pretty close.
And all the people that I work with and will continue to work with are people that I've just
gotten made that leisure with.
Totally.
I do like that aspect of it.
And it's not for everyone.
I tend to mix every part of my life together, I smash work and out of work and all that stuff together.
People like more clear boundaries.
But yeah, for me, I definitely miss that.
Yeah, 100%.
I really do like having the option to be in an office.
For me, I think Boston is famous for just horrific traffic, but I get to ride my bike or take the train.
So it's pretty easy.
And I think you'd set in your tweet.
You're like, if I could just be walking distance.
Like I'm a mile and a half or two miles from an office and I could just go in.
And yeah, it is such a powerful part of my social life.
I moved here with no friends.
I didn't know anybody on the East Coast.
And my wife and I both sort of made it a point to try and be super outgoing and super proactive about it.
And then yeah, a lot of my friends here are coworkers.
And I really do enjoy that.
I am excited for you to post the demand letter from Frank that says you must move to Toronto.
You know, 30 days or whatever it is to leave Miami.
Yeah, that's funny.
But yeah, I do think, so I do, I suspect, and again, I have no evidence for this.
I suspect the next billion dollar startup or the next whatever big tech company is going to be
one that was started in person and sort of have that feeling.
And again, I'm a big proponent of remote work.
That was a huge, it unlocked a huge part of my career.
And maybe we can kind of unpack that a little bit.
So Dax and I used to be competitors.
I don't know if people know this.
Yeah, so we talked about your hobbies, which seemed like they would fill up all your time.
But you also have this side thing where you're a software engineer.
So everyone's aware.
Yeah, so yeah, just to tell me a little bit about like your history with that.
Yeah, I was not a good student, but I did manage to call my way out of school.
And I left mechanical engineering.
I think I had like a C average.
And I was like, I'm going to just do software.
And I finally was able to like get things together and graduate,
started working at a medical device company.
And I actually liked, I loved the team.
I loved what the work that they were doing.
But I couldn't love the velocity to build things as quick as I can and ship them.
And that is just not what you want in an engineer who works on medical device.
So I quickly moved on and joined a startup that some friends were at in Minneapolis.
That was awesome.
That was a formative part of my career.
I started working on Ruby on Rails tech and that company experience really rapid growth,
which I think I credit a lot to my development.
Both as just like a developer, but also just a person.
When you go from having whatever it was, like 100 people to 500 people very quickly,
it's a big life change.
And at the same time that company grew, we were approached by, it was a sports tech company.
We did an amateur athletic registration payment processing background tracks.
If anyone has a kid or volunteers on a sports team, you've probably used this service before.
And we were then acquired by NBC Sports.
And they did a very interesting thing.
They said, "We're going to give you a blank check in three years."
And at the end of the three years, we are going to subtract whatever you spend
from your valuation and pay everyone out.
So we didn't have to worry about fundraising.
We didn't have to worry about making payroll.
And again, I'm just an engineer here, but wasn't necessarily involved in that.
But from an engineering standpoint, it allowed the company to go and acquire all of these sports
vertical, like small companies that were doing three, five person companies that were doing,
like we own gymnastics, we own swimming, we own golf or whatever it was,
and sort of bring them into the platform.
And at the time, the result of that, where we were a PCI compliant shop,
which meant we were able to process credit cards directly with merchants.
And there's a lot of rules and regulation about that.
We also had to bear in mind the legal world of the Child Online Privacy Act,
or COPA, which it's a little bit like GDPR for kids in the US.
That's a horrible summation, but you get the point.
And hearing all these rules and they were acquiring these companies that just didn't do any of it.
And we had this incredible operations team that made so much of our jobs easier,
and then they were just gone.
And my VP came to me, he said, "You have a blank check,
but I cannot give you an operations team.
Figure out how to build your product."
And that's how I found serverless.
And started using serverless early on.
This was probably 2017-ish before when we rolled it out to production.
And I loved it, found it really, really productive, made a bunch of headway,
and that's when I learned operations and I learned how to build on the cloud.
And that picked that up, thought it was great,
sort of working on some of the open source aspects of it.
And a couple of years later, they reached out, like the company,
and they had raised a Series A and they wanted to build a platform.
So I jumped a couple of years after the acquisition with MVC closed,
and that's how I started competing against DAX.
That's working on the serverless framework.
And I worked on their competitor to CID Run,
which was like a CI/CD product for serverless.
And I know you talk about this a lot, but I do want to bring up the point.
We had, I think, some of the same problems that you didn't have,
because you were bootstrapped and we were VC.
So we had growth, we had revenue, we had users,
but it just isn't out of velocity that would necessitate
venture capital, multiples on exit, which made it hard to pursue.
But I think for you and Jay and Frank,
you can use it to extend your own runway with three people
and build out what you really want to work on while you have this other product
that sort of creates some cash.
And I think that is key to anyone who's maybe out there thinking
about starting their own thing on the side or working on their own
kind of "lifestyle company" sort of startup.
That is a really big opportunity and a really, really important thing to look at is,
can you do something you don't want to do long term,
but just long enough to pay the bills so you can work on the thing you actually want to do long term?
Yeah, exactly. Getting to a point of sustainability.
Before we talk about that, I want to go back for a second.
So it sounds like, so do I understand this, right?
Like some of the compliance burden is what pulled you into serverless?
Because that's exactly how I got in there as well.
It was two parts, right?
First, the compliance burden where it's like we have to adhere to these rules in this AWS account,
so I can't just stand up a VM and call it a day.
That is a big part of it.
The other part was just my operations team was so busy bringing these other companies into compliance
that I didn't have time for them to, at the time we were on Chef and OpsWorks.
And I didn't have time for them to, like they didn't have time to stand up new services for me
or to run the operations for it.
So that's when we went on call for our own services.
We owned our own production deployments, our own pipelines, kind of the end-to-end process.
I think for some folks, it's hard to imagine a time before DevOps.
But there truly was like a wall between Dev and Ops.
It was like different rooms, different people.
You would just build the code and even with GitHub, we would put like a label on it.
That would say, this is ready to be deployed.
And then some time later, someone would deploy it and then you would just get,
if it broke something, you would get paged or then you would get brought in.
And they would be like, we reverted your code.
It wasn't very good.
So the DevOps thing was really taking off about then.
And that's now we're in a world where any, virtually any large tech company
you're expected to run your own services for the most part outside of some core things.
And that I do think has been good for the industry.
It's like a point of mature maturation.
And it also helps people really understand what they're building and the impact it has
versus like, oh yeah, it's ready.
I'll just hit the merge button and see what happens.
Yeah, it's funny because even at a lot of modern-ish companies,
I was at a company where I was kind of surprised to find that wall was still pretty strong.
They still called it DevOps.
And it wasn't so extreme of like literally like you had no idea I was deployed,
but it was close to that.
Like people were very good.
And this company was using Elixir for everything.
They were very, very good at using Elixir and the Phoenix framework and all of that.
But they had no idea what happened once it left and went into production.
And I found that really odd because from my entire career, it's like how it runs in production
impacts like how I build the application and like things I can take advantage of.
So yeah, there still is that wall and it's weird.
I think that's why maybe a lot of people don't understand or like don't appreciate
some of the value of serverless like so similar to me, similar to you, I was in the healthcare
space for a while and we were running Kubernetes and our own containers and all of that.
And every time we signed a new client, I had the fun task of filling out a 30-page security
questionnaire asking all kinds of crazy stuff like what kind of antivirus do you run on your
on your VMs and like and is just a huge pain.
Time sucks such a waste and like my least favorite part of the job by far.
Then I realized, oh, you know, if I literally don't have access to the underlying infrastructure,
nobody can ask me those questions.
And that was what like pulled me into serverless where I was like, okay, if I build my things
in this way, the right answer for every single question is not my problem, not my problem,
not my problem.
Managed by provider, I think is the key.
It's like you get to write MSP like manage service provider and then dash and then AWS.
Yeah.
And that's just such a flex.
You're just like, oh, I'm done with that.
Yeah, exactly.
So I was like, if I'm going to keep building something compliant in compliance spaces,
which is actually not even that uncommon.
Like everyone kind of eventually ends up there because even if you're not directly in health care,
you now have a customer that's in health care and they like want to make sure.
And now you are.
Yeah, exactly.
So you eventually.
Yeah, we're stuck to compliance, right?
Like, oh, you got to be stuck too.
You got to be, you know, FedRAMP or there's a billion of those.
Contrary to popular belief in the Forbes 30 under 30 list,
ignoring the law does not make you immune from it.
Yeah.
Well, it does up until a certain point, but so people start looking into like, wait,
what's actually going on here?
And at that point, it's like, yeah.
So that's, that's what pulled me into.
And I found all these, all these other benefits as well.
And yeah, it's been crazy how long you've been doing.
So I really, I got pulled into it maybe in like 2019 while I was at this
Elixir company just because I was bored of Elixir and this compliance thing I was thinking about.
And yeah, it's been awesome.
So I met AJ in person at AWS reinvent.
And it was the first time we met in person.
Maybe the only time I'm in person.
And 80s, which has been doing this stuff for so long.
And whenever I have like a question about some weird obscure thing about how Lambda works
or how is any AWS thing works on the hood, 80 is the person I ask.
And it's been amazing to have them as a resource.
Now you even like responded questions in our, in our Discord, which we definitely appreciate.
Oh, yeah.
I mean, I love SSD.
It like, it's a great tool.
And I think everyone is considering or, or wants to experiment.
Building an AWS should, should try it out.
So I'm happy to answer questions there.
And I, you know, answer questions on my own blog.
I'm exploring and experimenting with the idea of, of streaming while I work on some other things.
So I'm happy to announce on this podcast that my RFP for a talk at reinvent was accepted.
Nice.
Thank you.
I'm going to be talking about Lambda and cold certs and initialization.
And I'm running kind of a suite of benchmarks and working closely with, with other people
at Datadog and also a couple of people at AWS to answer some of those questions that I have.
And then we're going to be, you know, putting together, together this talk.
So I'll be there.
I'm pretty excited about it.
Nice.
Yeah.
But the serverless space, I mean, yeah, we, you know, I think we'd interacted a lot
online before we met in person.
And I do think serverless is at an interesting jumping off point where it's still possible to do
that, but it is sort of eating the world.
I mean, I think in our Datadog state of serverless report last year, we shared that like 50% of
organizations have adopted serverless at some point in their stack, which makes perfect sense
because it feels so many gaps in ways that you don't have to like be, you know, own the entire
operationalization of the tool, you can just sort of run it and it just executes.
So I do think that there's just a ton of value there.
I also think that there are a whole number of folks getting into software development and
learning serverless first.
That is really great.
And I'm really happy to see that.
I do think people struggle with some of the distributed systems rules that govern the world
we work in.
And I think that's funny because I think both of both you and I have kind of distributed systems
backend background before we got into serverless.
And I do think that has helped me a lot in my like journey and over the over the years,
even though I have been working in the serverless space for so long, but it operates on the same
fundamental principles, right, you have to build in item potency.
You have to handle race conditions.
You have to handle retries.
You have to handle things like either load shedding or just graceful failures.
Like what happens if the service is down?
And that part I think is really like that's just like an important part to learn.
If you're going to pick up serverless to understand that you are in a world of multiple systems
running in concert, which is like a really horrible thing to learn.
If you're just coming straight from, okay, I'm going to build this app on my computer
and then just deploy it.
But once you get past that, yeah, it's such a force multiplier, isn't it?
Yeah.
Like it's so much leverage you have.
Yeah, it's fine.
The thing I point out all the time is so prior, I was doing Elixir and Elixir has a really
incredible concurrency and distribution, just primitives that you can use.
So taking a task and running it in parallel is very natural in Elixir.
You can run across most of the machines, et cetera.
And I thought that was great.
But whenever you did that, whenever you did like, I'm going to run this parallel,
you set a limit of some mental, you had some mental sense of like this has to have a limit
because I've only provisioned for servers.
And I know that I can't just be like, okay, run this at like a million X concurrency.
So like you like kind of had that, but they were still a cap of like,
okay, if I want to go up those other ghost and another server joins the cluster, et cetera.
And once I moved into the serverless world, that's only became an option where I'm like,
this needs to go faster.
I can run it in parallel.
I'm just going to do it 100% in parallel.
And it's like, it's crazy how much is just solved by doing that.
Like so many problems are highly parallel and you don't have to worry about optimizing
the individual units runtime when you can just run it 100% in parallel.
And you learn that lesson one time and it becomes your superpower.
Yeah.
Like if you look for the aspect of a problem you're faced with and you figure out how to,
in industry parlance, we'd say scale horizontally, but how to do this separately and isolated
from other transactions you're processing or other jobs you're doing, you can do them independently.
It's so easy to just rapidly scale them out, especially with something like Lambda.
And I would say the big benefit for Lambda is that they're isolated, guaranteed.
Yep.
You have this guaranteed isolation where you're going to get this amount of CPU and this amount of
memory. And beyond that, you don't have to worry about the noise and neighbor problem
affecting your individual request. So if you have 100 requests and the server starts to slow down
in a normal load balanced container application, one request is going to affect 99 others.
However, in Lambda, that is just slowing down its own request.
And this is a principle, this is just queuing theory, right?
Yeah.
So I talk a lot about the Trader Joe's model of queuing theory.
And I wanted to, I wanted to bounce this off you before I build this into my talk. But are you,
have you shopped at a Trader Joe's or do you have those in Miami?
Yeah, we do. I haven't been to it much, but I have been to it where it goes before.
I recently was told that this is not true for all of them. So it does the metaphor breaks down
a little bit. But at the Trader Joe's, in my experience, the way they're set up is they have
one line of people waiting to check out. And then they have multiple cashiers.
And the benefit there is you get limited variability in the P99 or the 99th percentile.
Right, those outliers. And almost everything we do as performance engineers and software
is outliers. Like, what is that? 0.01% or 0.1% of requests wise of taking so long.
And the benefit of the Trader Joe's system of checkout, compared to a typical grocery store,
where you just pick a line and wait, is that one person in front of you, you know, writing a check
or you wouldn't use any gift cards. Yeah, kind of pennies. Yeah, it doesn't impact you as much,
right? Because it all it does is, it's like a thread pool. It reduces one worker in the pool. But
every other cashier is there. And also at the same time, they can, quote, spin up, you know,
new cashiers can come forward and help burn down the line. Yeah. And that is very similar to the
way I think about Lambda and distributed systems is having this ability to consume work. And if
you're a Go programmer, if you're a backend developer, looking at Go, you already probably do this,
because you already are familiar with Go routines and within a single process. Yeah, absolutely,
absolutely. And the same with the roster if you're using like Tokyo or even Node, right? A lot of
node developers don't realize like how the like new node developers don't realize how the event
works. But it's very similar. You know, you just the event loop is processing whatever events are
being emitted. As you get more, you push more things into the event loop. And then it continues
to cycle through and execute any awaiting transaction in that loop. Yeah, I mean, people do get hung
up on that because when I asked, I asked a question the other day about doing something concurrently
in node, and I had a few people respond being like, that's not possible. You can't do that. And
they didn't realize that, well, for IO work, you can, because it like totally it jumps to the
like pauses that and jumps to the next EP work needs to do. Yeah, it's a I mean, the thing you
bring up the trade that trade was that queuing thing is great. It's that's another product. I
totally forgot that these were problems I used to deal with. But again, very typical, right? Like,
you build some service where you can upload a CSV and get a processed. Most people have CSVs
that have a thousand lines. Someone shows up with the 2 million line CSV, and you prior
process it has aggressively to process everything else. And suddenly everyone's requests are slow.
So being able to like preempt that and like and deal with those situations is is again,
I totally like this used to be a constant problem for me. It's like, okay,
how do I do this? Absolutely one big user, but I just totally forgot that it's it is not an issue
anymore. Yeah, and I think, you know, we're getting the point in our careers where you can look back
on things you've solved before, which is that's experience, right? Yeah, that's what people talk
about when you're like, well, what does experience mean? It's like, oh, I've solved this. Yeah,
and the CSV thing is something I think everyone has to go through. And it's yeah, so it's exactly
what you're describing. We we used to have to do these running a big Ruby on Rails app with a
background processor called a delay job and later sidekick. It would in queue these tasks in Redis.
But to make the task horizontally scalable in Redis, it would split the file either by line or by
chunk and then in queue those as different items. And that still isn't quite solved the noise neighbor
problem, right, where one person is doing two million and the other person is doing six. Why are
they waiting behind that person? But with S3 and Lambda, and event triggers, all of a sudden you
get that isolation, right? And I can say, okay, here is a URL, put your CSV file here. And then
that URL, once that user writes the binary data to S3, we'll trigger a Lambda function. That Lambda
function can then you can do so many things right away. You can even use something like step
functions dynamic map to just entirely have it split and processed. And then you don't have to
worry about any of the isolation at all, right? It's just done for you. Yeah, that's pretty cool.
You also get so like, another thing you're going to do is is just by by the nature of
CSVs, people are going to have duplicates. I don't know about you, but everybody's data is
crappy. So they upload these giant CSV files and you can, you know, lemons scene distance is an
algorithm to detect how close words are together. It's used for autocorrect. You may not know the
algorithm, but you've just, you've been a user, you've definitely used it before. And it's such a
common thing to like run levishing distance against the rest of the file and flag any dupes and have
people correct those. And I think I've built that twice at like production scale. And the first time
I got paged a lot because yeah, I didn't handle, I didn't handle the P99 well. But the second time
using like step functions and using serverless was just so effortless that all I had to do is
watch the metrics. And just say, Oh, wow, we just, we just processed a 200 million line file that
this giant like national governing body uploaded every single person in their contact list ever.
Yeah. And it just churned through it.
Yeah, it's a it's really cool. And even yeah, you can definitely see it in your own. I mean,
you mentioned the metrics and that that's an interesting thing I think about all the time.
If I look at the metrics that I used to obsessively look at and the ones I look at now,
they're completely different. I could never go to production before without having memory
monitoring in place CPU monitoring in place alerts, alarms, all of that stuff just in case
something happened and I need to go intervene and scale something up.
I don't know the last time I really looked at any of those metrics. Now we just look at
whoa, look how much we did. That's cool. That's about it. That's a lot of time. I look at stuff.
Yeah, so it's like a completely different world.
Totally. And Lambda solves that. Like Lambda solves that. But let's talk about S3,
S3. Which might be the single most impactful data system that any of us have ever
ever used ever. S3 does one trick and that trick is called erasure coding. And if you've ever read
about rate arrays or built a gaming computer, you maybe know a little bit about this, but the
just the idea is like breaking up a file or a binary blob. It's arbitrary binary data into chunks.
And then writing a multiple of those chunks to different services. So you take the bits,
you run them through an algorithm, you scramble the bits, and then you take different sets of
those bits and write them to five places. So maybe you have one record that needs to be
divided into three chunks to store at scale. Then they're going to divide them into five.
And the idea is you can lose two of those five disks or two of those five data sets at any point.
And your data will still be fine. But it's not just about data storage. It's about retrieval.
So when you read a file from S3, it's going to do a scatter gather operation. You talk to a control
plane or a service that tells you where this data lives. And that control plane will say, okay,
here are the 15 nodes you need to talk to. But once you get 10 reads back or, you know,
10 responses back, you now have enough to reconstitute that file. You can just drop
the other five reads you were doing. And that's so important because in any distributed data store,
there's always going to be one node that is doing garbage collection or hot spotting,
or there's a hundred other requests that happen to hit that node at that point,
or any number of things that cause it to drop that request. And this is why you get this very
consistent response out of S3. And now every cloud has their own version of S3. So you have
like a binary compatible blob store. And that is just such a powerful thing to be able to do.
It's not necessarily super, super fast. You don't get single millisecond responses like
you do out of Dynamo. But you sure as hell aren't going to have, you know,
one minute long response times like that long tail of data systems and data services that we
typically see in distributed systems, you don't have to deal with that. And that becomes the basis
for so much of what we do. We wrote a data dog wrote this great blog post in the service called
Husky we use that stores our event data. It's you can read it. It's on our website. It's great.
And that's all backed by blob store. All right. Like that's that's how that service works. Yeah. So
many other systems built on AWS are just built on S3 as well. Yeah, it's funny because that's
one of their oldest services. I think for a lot of people, they might have even gotten introduced
to AWS through S3. It's also like it fits the mindset of serverless. It's been that way since
the beginning as maybe the first serverless offering that people use like you just pay for
your usage and you don't think about provisioning resources at all. Yeah. And it's great. So much
is built on top of it. I actually like got into like managing servers through distributed
fellow systems. My Oh really? Tell me about that. My dad bought my dad's also a software engineer.
He was doing like a Hadoop prototype for his job. He was working at the time. So he bought
like this rack of eight servers that he just installed in our basement and he was using that to like
set up a dupe and prototype and and Hadoop is like is similar to what he was saying. Like it's
it splits up data and you have like some metadata server that tells you where everything is. You
can kind of retrieve it efficiently and in in the same way. Basically, it's kind of build your own
S3, which people are doing back then. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. He prototyped with it for
not that long. I think it took him like a one month. And after that month, he was like,
okay, these are yours now. And I was like, Oh, and then that's how I learned how to do Linux
and servers. And I would like I was like putting a Minecraft servers and doing all this stuff.
But yeah, like that that was technically the only reason those machines made it into my house
was was for this this reason. So I was doing the distributed false system stuff, but that's why I
got there. Yeah, that's why they're there. That's awesome. My my my dad worked part time as a
janitor at the school. I went to sort of make ends meet when things were rough. And he they were
going to they were going to recycle these like Pentium two machines. And he took home two of them
for my little sister and I and that's kind of how I got my start. And that's actually how I got
into like networking because I wanted to play like SimCity and Streets of SimCity and all these
games with my with my sister. And two machines was it solves such a huge problem in our life,
which was, you know, one controller on the Super Nintendo or the Sega Genesis or whatever,
right? There's only one. And how are you going to share with your sibling that the unplugged
controller trick doesn't work past like a they catch on. So so that was such a big part of me
growing up to is was thinking around on unused machines. And I do think it definitely like lit
the spark. Yeah, the other thing that did it for me was Legos. Yes. Yeah, I wrote about this a few
years ago. It's probably I'm most embarrassed by it because it's just not a good piece of writing,
but you have to you have to be bad at something before you can be okay at something. And I wrote
about how Lego League impacted me as an engineer. And Lego League was this like ultra nerdy hobby
I picked up where you have this this Lego kit, which is based on a microcontroller and then motors
and sensors and then just Lego parts. Yeah. And you build a robot and you use that robot to compete
on a map to score objectives and every year the objectives were different. You might have to,
you know, rescue a villager from volcano or, you know, it's like a Mars mission drop a supply
crate off at some, you know, launch site or something like that, right? Just like little like move
parts around on a board. And that it was written with this visual. Are you talking about like a
mindstorm? Was that related? Yes, it was a Lego mindstorm. Yeah, I had that too. The visual,
the visual programming thing. Yeah. Yep. Yeah. Yeah. And that was such a cool thing for me because,
like I said, like we talked about, I'm not a good student. I need to see things and be like this
is important to me because it does something I want to do and not because I'm a better person
for learning it. Yeah. And that clicked for me, like the Lego thing clicked for me where I could
drive this robot around my living room or whatever. And I do think that definitely keyed my interest
because the people that coached all of that were all engineers. They're all hardware engineers or
electrical engineers or software engineers that parents that were at the school. And that definitely
piqued my interest. And I do still see some of that like in the, you know, in the engineering world
today, I see people kind of bringing aspects of those old little hobbies and toys to their to their
day to day. And I think that is neat. You know, it's a good way to teach, like to see if kids have
that spark and are interested in this type of thing. If they have the patience for frustration to
like see it through till something works. And I think software is kind of one big frustration
exercise after another. Yeah. Yeah. That's a big part of it. Just nothing worked when, I guess,
when we were growing up, totally rage, right? So there's nothing that worked. Well, but to
tell the crazier degree, like every single time I wanted to print something, I had to go debug
the printer. Like what's wrong? The driver, the thing. And then start printing. You remember
when like it would start printing out like all those nonsense, like weird test page. And yeah,
not diving that just like weird care. My printer had this thing where it would like not decode
something correct. So we just start printing out like all those like weird characters and stuff.
It was actually kind of scary now in hindsight. I think that's your dad trolling you. Like 99%
share your dad was like, this kid keeps messing with my printer. He's already got my my rack. Like
what more does he want? I'm just going to print some scary stuff that says go to bed and he'll be
done. But yeah, nothing worked. And I had to constantly debug it and you just kind of learn
that debugging skill, which you learn from like literally anything is enough to be something
totally related. It's anything that's not working out to forget what the issue is.
And he's developed a lot of patience for it. My brother is very different. He got,
I think he grew up in an era where stuff which has worked a lot better. And he just, you know,
for him, it's just like, there's this classic story my dad always tells where my brother was
complaining that TV wasn't working. The TV's not working. And my dad goes to check and it just
like wasn't plugged in. Just like just sitting registered for my brother like taking in and
figure out what was wrong. So I definitely appreciate the era that kind of we grew up in.
I think a lot of a lot of stuff kind of pulled us in that direction.
I think there's still a lot of that too. And ultimately, for me, it boils down to the theory of fun.
Have you heard about like the levels of fun? Are you? Okay, tell me.
I think this comes from the military. I've heard it from other other like jumpers for
comes from the jumping community part of. And the idea is there's three levels of fun.
The first level is a roller coaster or something that you do. It's enjoyable. You say that was
fun. You know, you talk to your friend or your spouse. You're like, Oh, that was fun.
But the next day you're not like, Oh man, I gotta gotta get back on the roller coaster.
Yeah, the femoral level two. Yeah, level two fun is not fun when you're doing it level
two fun. It can be like hiking a mountain or building a big system or, you know,
whatever, doing something that or running or, you know, pick pick it, whatever you want to do,
right? Like learning, I think you're learning the kite surf. I think there's a lot of times
where that is not fun when you're doing it. And it's very true for bass jumping. You know,
you're on this like six hour hike up a mountain. We jumped the Eiger with a wing suit a few years
ago. And it is not fun. It is not, it's not a fun hike. It's not a, it's a very pretty hike,
but it's on this like crusty shale rock that keeps breaking under your feet. So it feels like
two steps forward is only one. You're just kind of crushing. You're just,
you're just willing your way up this thing. And it's not technical to do. It's not technical
to achieve. There's not, it's like, okay, you walked up the Eiger, we can see it from here.
It's just annoying. It's an annoying thing. Yeah, it's an annoying thing. And you're,
in your at altitude, and I'm already, it wasn't in great shape, still not an amazing shape.
The whole thing is a grind. And, and you get up there, and then you jump and you land,
and then you're like, okay, that was fun. Yeah. So type two fun. Interesting.
It's not fun when you're doing it, but it's fun and retrospect. And that's the thing that gets
people to do a marathon again, or do a five day or whatever it is, right? Yeah. Yeah. That feeling,
that feeling of accomplishment is the fun part not doing the task. Right. Level three fun is never
fun. You're never happy about that. You never, that, that is never a good, you know, if you've ever
been on a camping trip, or I went on this backpacking trip in Wyoming, and it was in July,
and we got like snowed in, and we didn't, no idea why there was snow in the mountains at this point,
but there was. And of course, we didn't know, we're a bunch of minutes, so we don't know anything
about the mountains. Get back to the car, and of course the car's battery's dead. We hadn't seen
anybody in five days, and we're freaking out, and we're like, okay, how much food do we have,
whatever. And finally, like someone comes by and jumps the car and whatever, but like,
that's never been fun. I've never looked back at that and said, oh man, I would love to have that
experience. It's just like not camping in the snow when you're expecting like a summer camp,
and then thinking you're going to have to live out in the wilderness until it thaws,
and people come and rescue you, because you have no cell service. Like that's not a fun
thing. That's like level three fun. And I do like it's software projects like that too. Like,
there's like a self-refessed in software, in some times. And it's a key part of your development as
an engineer is, is do, like figuring out what has to be done, and what, you know, what you can sort
of really have fun with, and figure out how to make yourself do the things you don't necessarily
want to do. But there's this whole class of problems that I never want to solve in software
that are like the Kobayashi Meru to borrow the Star Trek reference, where if you do everything,
100% right, you nail it, you have the entire software as flawless, the operations are flawless,
the deployment is great. Maybe you're like migrating a system. And you do it perfectly.
Nobody notices. Right. And anything less than that is abject failure. And every stakeholder is like,
how did the system go down? What were you doing? What were you thinking? What, you know,
those types of problems, I think, are key to understand as a software developer, and how to do
them is unlocks a lot of value. And especially how to do them in a way that you can motivate the
team and be fun, right, and enjoy it and do the work, even though you know it's a self-refessed,
you know, this is like level three fun. This isn't going to be, no, no good comes out of this,
no promotions come out of this, no blog posts comes out of this, it is just work. But you do
have to do it, you know, those things come up. Yeah, yeah, exactly. And it's, it's nice. I feel
like as my career is progressed, I've been able to do less and less of things in that category,
just because like as an industry, things are maturing and like their solutions for things like that.
It is like a weird thing, because in the moment, it's always fun to like learn something new,
and like you're proud of the skills that you acquired, and you like that you know how to do
certain things. Simultaneously, I am happy to never use certain skills. Again, I'm happy that I'm
never gonna have to like manually run a database again and like make sure it's running and make
sure it doesn't go down, make sure backups are up. I know how to do that, I've done it before,
but I'm glad to not have to do that again. I can appreciate what other people are doing for me.
So yeah, I think sometimes people look at especially people like in the serverless world that are
like really using managed services. I think sometimes externally people look at that and they're like,
oh, that's, you're only doing that because you don't know how to do that yourself. But it's
actually the opposite. We know how to do it ourselves and we just never want to do it again,
because we know it's just not the best use of our time. You know, it's so intimately, you know,
it's so intimately and so well you never want to do it again. I did, I wrote about a user service
migration where we shut down, we like acquired this company, we were migrating the users and our
users, and that is like one of the things I just never want to do again. It wasn't, it went well,
and everything worked, but it is definitely a process where if like data could be lost, if it
wasn't done right. And so much of your career, your development as an engineer and your developer,
you know, we're contributed to a business and understanding the value of that business is key
to knowing your place and how to improve your prospects, but also the company and your team
and all those things. And identifying those areas that you've done before and steering away from
the Quagmire is a mark of the senior engineer, the person that's got that experience. And also,
like the thing that you're doing now at your company, you're avoiding those pitfalls, so you
never have to solve that problem. And doing that with serverless, that is the whole point, right?
You're like, no, no, no, this, I'm going to solve this problem once. And I'm never going to have to
open this code or touch the system. Again, it will just work. You know, Alex debris is a good
friend of mine. He's a mentor. I actually, I had the pleasure of he managed me at serverless ink
for a while when we were both there. Oh, wow. So if you don't know Alex, Alex wrote, literally wrote
the DynamoDB book. And last week I was in Seattle at the AWS hero summit, hanging out with him,
and he kept getting like product managers at AWS, where like just pulling him aside out of the
summit to talk with him, right? Like he is very respected by that group and by that company.
And I think, you know, one of the things he taught me about Dynamo and just systems in general is
like the guardrails prevent you from writing a bad query. And you have to do all of that work up
front to model your system. And then that is hard. And I think a lot of people look at that and say,
why I could just, you know, throw it in SQL and no disrespect to Aaron Francis, but you know,
that didn't exist also at the time. This conversation was happening. Yeah. So you get this world of,
you know, this guaranteed world of very low latency services just by doing a little upfront work,
and you never have to worry about it again. You won't let you write a bad query. And I do think
those, like I look for those levers in both serverless, but also other, you know, I do a lot of
containers work. I love app run or love far again. There's a lot of these tools that exist out there
for you. We just never have to think about it again if you sort of go down the right path.
And that is experience. Like, yeah, I've made those mistakes. Yeah, exactly. I made those mistakes.
Opting into the upfront pain, I think is because when you start maturing, you start to like,
you talk to say, okay, I'm just going to, this is going to suck for the first week,
but then I get this long term benefit and like making those choices. It's hard, but I think that's
what as you get more senior, you start to make more of those. The diamond one's a great example,
because I think people often respond saying, well, I don't have high scale, like I'm not dealing
with massive scale. So why should I care? And the thing I always point out is it's not the fact that
it can scale to a crazy place. It's what that experience looks like. When you work with like
a database that doesn't, like you said, DynamoDB doesn't let you build anything that doesn't scale
automatically. When you're in a situation where that's not true, like for using a center SQL database,
which, you know, our current products are all on my SQL. So I still use it. But the reality is,
is one day you have a week planned. You're like, we're going to build all these really cool things
this week. We're excited. We have momentum. We just shift a bunch of, we just shift a bunch of
things the last two weeks. We're on a high, like we're going to keep going with it. You wake up one
day. And it's like, Oh, this table is overloaded. Right? Like, yeah, people are using this specific
feature more than we expected. And now we have to go change all of our plans that we have for this
week to go do this firefighting of like, you know, figuring out, okay, what indexes do we need,
like what optimizations do we need to make? How do we rework this? And you're going to do it. You're
going to do it. It's not going to be a big deal. You're going to achieve it in a couple of days,
and you're going to forget about you're going to move on. But that moment just killed all this
momentum that you had in your plans. Let's get shifted to the next week. And then it's a disruption
and people kind of lose lose that momentum. So yeah, a lot of this for me is really understanding
how people work and how companies work and how teams become efficient and start shipping a lot.
And those disruptions really, really make it's very easy to underestimate them. But
that's the difference between teams that are shipping 100x more than other ones, like they know
how to build momentum and maintain it. And those like unexpected disruptions, those surprises,
they're like they're killer for that type of thing. Absolutely. The thing I always say is that
preserve momentum. If you're if you're an engineer, even a leader or an IC or a new engineer, like
everything we do is to preserve the momentum of the team going forward. So if there is a way that I
can trade okay work or good work today for the best work tomorrow, I'm going to take the good
work today. And I know that I can make things move tomorrow. And that the other thing is always
be ready to ship at any point. I need to be able to press the merge button or press the deploy button.
This is true. Now I'm mostly on a library team. I do a lot of open source work, but I also do
manage a backend service that distributed system think like go in Kafka and a few other components.
And that like always be shipable or always be ready to ship is such a key mantra. We do not want
to exist in a world where for coalescing of reasons, we cannot do a deployment or make a
change or roll something forward if we need to. We do that through things like feature flagging,
we do that through things like small pull requests, coding small is a big mantra of mine, right?
How many? I don't care that you can, you know, refactor this whole service in a 20,000 line PR.
I want to see how you can start today with three lines and how that's safe and how I can roll
that back if we need to. And you've thought about the impacts that could have on the underlying
data store if this goes wrong. And that mentality I think carries you so far. And I do think, you know,
there is this, I think that that so many like, especially early career and hungry engineers want
to kind of move mountains, not realizing that you move mountains a little bit at a time. And we
should talk about this because you and I are both in our 30s. We've been doing this for some time.
So like Dax, how do you, you know, like stay motivated to keep working? You're, I think we're
both ICs. I'm not sure how your company is organized. But you know, everyone's contributing and you're
pushing forward. Like what keeps you going through this? I mean, to be honest, people always laugh
me for saying this, but it's true. I just love money. If I'm going to be completely honest,
like I just love finding ways to say I put in five minutes of work. Here's how much value I created
and increasing that lever over time. I'm just addicted to it. So it's a joke because I'm saying
money. And it is money. But then the day it's like, that satisfaction I get remembering that
a year ago, this thing, this value I created would have taken me two hours today. It took me 10 minutes.
It's like, I always liken it to like, like an RTS game where in the beginning of the game,
you have like nothing, just a few villagers and you're like, just figuring out food and basic things.
By the end of the game, you've got like more than the, you have so many systems set up for like the
basics, you've moved on to like much higher level things. Building a business building and the
tech to me feels that way and it feels addicting in that same way. Totally. I think since we're
confessing, I'm like a deeply insecure person. That definitely drove me to want to base jump
because I wanted, I was a cringy kid in high school in college. I was not, you know, it was not a
good experience for me. I did not have fun. And I just wanted to sort of be accepted. And as a
result, I had this like the classic millennial, you know, crave attention, crave validation, life,
you know, and that definitely, that's like a big part of why I'm active on social media in
technology. And I like to give talks is definitely like it comes from that part within that like,
oh, I need to, I need to be validated. But, you know, I, that's not really, I think what keeps me
going now. I think so much of what keeps me going now is unlocking the ability of others and making
really big things move. So I'm a staff engineer at Datadog for my day job. I do have a couple of
reports, but I'm not predominantly a people manager. My role, and I think sort of the canonical role
of staff engineer is to solve problems that exist horizontally at the company. And that means
taking people that maybe, you know, this person's working on front and this person's working on
back end or teams, right? Like at our scale, it's like teams of people are doing this part
and that part. And then there's the back end for Datadog is not a Postgres database. I just want
to go right out here and say it's a little bit more than that. And so our front engineers are
full stack and they do back and they build their own API endpoints. They build their own
API contracts. And then we have a whole group of distributed systems engineers that build the
actual streaming and the real time data services that power at all. And then there's people like me
that are more closer to the like front front end or the client libraries where this is open source
libraries that you run in your infrastructure and send data back to us. And a big part of my role is
is finding the right people in all these different groups and getting them excited about a vision
or an idea and helping them move forward on it together so that any one part of that
doesn't seem like it was a big change. But when you step back, we've moved to mountain. We've done
something big here. And I think as somebody in my 30s now, that has been a really big, it's like
unlocked that fun button all over again, all over again. So instead of, you know,
oh, I ship this API and it's really good. And I like using it, which I still do find value in.
So much, so much of it now is like this group of six people sort of skunk work style,
which is the code name for the group that built the SR71 board kind of under the covers, right?
At Lockheed, like that, that kind of of building and moving pieces inside of a company is huge.
And I think that's what like senior and super senior staff I see is kind of do is they have
this like higher level vision of what has to be done for us to be successful in five or 10 years.
And they're able to work within all those groups and identify the siloed people or the people that
are in different teams to move those projects forward. And that like, I work with some incredibly
motivated, I have a couple of engineers on my team now that are young and 10x, what I ever was
at that age and ever will be in my career. And I love being able to sort of direct them and help
them solve a problem and then watch them just go out and crush it. And that, you know, it's not
management. It's not full-time management. It's still very technical work. Like I'm shipping code
every day. But that is, that's the role you're leading, you're mentoring, you're helping people
have an impact, helping people build a product. And I do because I am so deep in need of validation,
I do like working on product teams so that I can like go off and do that.
Yeah, you know, that's awesome. I mean, that's really well put. I think it's,
I can relate a lot to that. And it kind of in a different angle though, because we're just a
team of three. Totally. But yeah, the thing you're talking about is you see what's going on in like
a very large, broad way. And you see certain opportunities and you connect the dots and make
sure that like certain things come together and it ends up having a huge impact. And at the end of
the day, it's all we're talking about, we're having trying to, as you go further and further
in your career, like the same amount of time you spend on something just starts to have a much bigger
impact. We're able to now do this kind of in the open source space, right? Like we're so plugged into
all this stuff going on, all different tools coming out, being able to identify,
again, just like you said, like there's like, I mean, a great example is a team behind Drizzle,
which is like, you know, TypeScript. To type say what it's all to your database that is awesome and
we love. But we saw that team early on, we were like, they built something way better than any of
like, I could ever build like this is just like, like the good said, like the people are way better
than me at certain things. It's super impressive, but very underrated, right? Like it's not fitting
into the right place is being overlooked XYZ things. And being able to like connect the dots with,
I know that a lot of people would benefit from this. I know they're just, it's like a arbitrary
that they're not more popular and finding a way to get them in front of people and get adoption and
see where that grows and kind of maneuver things in that way. It's like I said, it's a fun button.
It's like a new thing that I realized, oh, I can do this now. I can like see different things and
have influence and impact this impact. All this stuff comes together. Yeah, it's like the same
satisfaction. Like I said, the same satisfaction I get from like shipping, like a literal thing
that I built with code, it's all the same. It's like the job looks very different. You're doing
very different things, but your, your intelligence around it, like how you approach it that have a
thinking it takes. It's the exact same thing you've always been doing. Just the pieces you're using
are, are quite different. Yeah, you're moving, uh, logical groups of people and their efforts,
and you're not necessarily doing the technical work or, you know, you mean you're doing the
technical work, but not every single component of it. You need to, you need to compose those
pieces. You also have to direct, you know, direct the traffic. Yeah, it is, yeah, it is type two fun.
But, but I think as you, as you grow and you build more software, build more, do whatever it is that,
you know, you sort of incentivize to do what you like to do, you go through the hard parts with the
kind of a, a ry smile on your face, knowing that in three weeks or six weeks or when the release is
done or when customers start to adopt it, it's going to be good. Yeah. You know, you're going to be
really happy you did that. And that is, you look back on that, you're like, ah, yeah, that was a good
project. Yeah. You know, and that lasts forever. I still, I have a team that I worked with that
that sports tech company that we sort of built around the ashes of a project that was just horrible
and it burned out a lot of people, like most of the people on that project quit. And they,
like a year later, they, they tapped me. They're like, do you want to, do you want to get a, like,
ragtag group of people that want to try and attempt this again? And you know, you can sort of decide
how it's going to go and how we're going to work on it. But we do have contracts signed, you know,
it's like, Oh, great. Thanks. No problem. Like, let's just run through the ringer again.
But we were able to build up a team that got so close and were so successful that we still,
we still talk to each other all the time. Like we have a slack instance and we just get to hang
out. Now everyone's at different places all over the place. But we still, you know, connect because
those bonds are sort of forged in that process. And we, I think everyone looks back kind of finally
added at the time it sucked there. It was a suffer, because there was not a lot of fun that was
happening day to day. There was just enough to keep people from burning out. But then we did,
you know, at the end, we did this really big thing. We look back on it. We're like, wow, that was like,
that was cool. And it is, you know, I think to your point, right, like, it makes money. Like,
that it's not going to be successful. If it didn't make money, it was a business we're working in a
business. Yeah. So you know, if that motivates you, that's great. But I don't think, you know,
not really, right? I think it motivates you to a point. But I think really, like, when people
use something, I work on like, Oh, this is good. Like, Oh, I like this. That feels so good that I
definitely money is a side effect of that thing. Exactly. Yeah, building building something good.
If you if you haven't read this, I think everyone, everyone should read Zen and the art of motorcycle
maintenance by piercing. It's a classic, I'm sure your dad probably was like, here's your server,
here's your here's your motorcycle maintenance book, here's your sick book. But it's just a book
about quality. And like, what is quality? It's it's it's an abject measurement of something. But
what what actually is it? How do you know, you know, you pick something up, you know, it's quality.
But describe the quality parts of this, the qualitative parts that make this thing good. Yeah.
And I do love that about software. And you talked a lot about linear, you know, you know, you know,
I listen to your episode. I forget the names. But Tomas, yeah, thank you. And I could tell that
this is a person that also really values the work they do for the purpose of knowing that it's good.
Yeah, that people will objectively assess us as good. They may not be able to tell you what's good.
But when they use it, when they when they touch it, when they feel it or you know, interact with it,
it feels good. And that that is a really powerful motivating factor for me too. Like, it's a big,
big part. Likewise, like, I want to make sure what I put out in the world, I can point to it and say,
like, that is that represents me that represents the best of my abilities. You can judge me based off
of off of that piece of thing. And it's kind of going back to what we were saying. It's just that,
yeah, we can be honest about this. There's just a need for validation. Like, I am the same way
I want it. I need it. Like, we don't have to pretend like we're all like emotionless.
Like, no, it's a part of your hierarchy of needs. Yeah, absolutely. Like respect for your work or
what you do or what you spend a huge amount of your waking hours do is important. I do think it's
important to walk a line and be able to unwind because burnout is real. And I'm someone who also
intertwines deeply, intertwines my day job with my hobbies, with my, you know, being an AWS hero
and working, you know, towards kind of that type of blogging content creation sort of role. Like,
that's all me. That's all one part. And I sort of bring my same part, my same self to each of those.
It's not like I like compartmentalize my blog when I go and work on a bug. Like, so many of my
blog posts, if you read them are about bugs, like they started as a bug. This proactive initialization
thing was a bug, you know, it started as a bug ticket. So, so that is, I think, a superpower.
But it's like a nuclear core. You have to be really careful to temper how much of that you you do
or don't use. Because first off, you have to go long. We have a long career. Everyone's living
longer than ever before. You're going to be doing this 30, 40 years from now, probably, right? Well,
hopefully not 40, but you know, longer than maybe our parents or their parents, definitely
longer than their parents. So figuring out how to do that over time is the real secret. I think
anyone can have fun and anyone can sort of burn the midnight oil and hack away on something.
Or or whatever, right? If maybe you're you're not a developer, you want to be a streamer and play
games or entertain people like that is hard work. Yeah, that is not an easy thing. I don't I think
there's this like concept of easy jobs. There are no easy jobs. Yeah. And once you have that in mind,
you can, you know, you have to find a way to temper that over the long term. And I think that's what
leads companies are actually to be successful because and you said this too, right? The most
important thing you can do to be successful in five years is to be there in five years. You have
to be there. You have to be there. That is that is the people giving up is the number one killer
of startups, the number one killer of dreams, the killer of ideas. P zero, you have to be there.
Yeah. Yeah. It's I think someone said, I don't remember where I read this, but someone was like,
almost every struggle and challenge in life is just your internal debate between the short
term and the long term. And almost anything in life you struggle with can probably be summarized
in that way. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, short of horrible like sickness and disease and all those other
things that do come up, you know, and governments. But yeah, your ability to your ability to persist
through this is key. Yeah. Okay. Awesome. Well, okay, we're at an hour now, but this was great.
Thank you so much for joining. A lot of wisdom there. Appreciate it.
Oh, it's been fun. Yeah. I look forward to jumping back on when Adam buys his motorcycle.
And then later when he gets a scottiving license, that'll be great. Yeah.
No, I think we'd definitely love to have you on again, but maybe Adam can do can do the next one.
And you guys can talk about you can influence it maybe on on some of these other hobbies. I feel
like Adam is like in the his hobby is hobbies right now. That's what I feel like. I feel like
he's like, Oh, that's also such a superpower though. Like just be like, so I think so many
people are scared to look dumb. Yeah, I have always looked down and I've never been athletic
and I've never been coordinated. So it's always it's just like, if you're just, okay, I'm going to
just do this thing. No suck at it for a while. If you can embrace the suck, embrace the sufferfest,
it's just such a you have more fun. Yeah, it's it's a try more things. It's so true. And I can
give you like a little example of this. So I live in Miami. My wife is Cuban. Her whole family
speak Spanish. I have made basically no progress on learning how to speak Spanish. Because of
exactly this issue, I am kind of afraid to look and sound dumb. Like my whole identity of myself
is that I, you know, I'm pretty articulate. I can express myself well. And then suddenly turning
that off like I'm like, I don't know who I am. Like, how can I even so that's like I'm letting
that get in the way. But you know, that's obviously a short term thing like I'm going to sound and
look down for a little bit, and I'm going to figure it out. And I'm going to have a new ability to
communicate, which I seem to like kind of get over, but totally. Yeah, it's that's life, man.
It's like a wild little adventure and no one gets out alive anyway. So you may as well,
you may as well try a bunch of stuff. Okay, awesome.